Release 2.4.0 (#3109)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: docs/content/releases.md

toc: true
docs: "DOCS-616"
---
## NGINX Ingress Controller 2.4.0

04 Oct 2022

> FEATURES:

Reviewer: We still need the Overview section in addition to this Features section

* [2986](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2986) Batch reloads at runtime.
* [2914](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2914) Support watching multiple namespaces.
* [2884](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2884) Include year in logs.
* [2993](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2993) Accept proxy protocol when TLS passthrough enabled.
* [3041](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3041) Support external name service for TansportServer.

> * [3087](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3087) Allow omitting the default server secret from Helm installs.

Reviewer: This would probably be better in the Helm section

* [2939](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2939) Add support for wildcard hostname in VirutalServer.

IMPROVEMENTS:

* [2912](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2912) NIC + NAP DoS images.
* [3040](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3040) Add command line argument to manually disable IPV6 listeners for unsupported clusters.

> * [3088](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3088) Feat/ignore helm secrets.

Reviewer: I know this is lifted from the commit message, but I'd probably reword in for here - maybe "Improve secret filtering" or something.

FIXES:

* [2848](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2848) fix: Change alpine version grab to include a colon in the updater.

> * [2908](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2908) segregate IC and custom resources fixtures.

Reviewer: This is just for tests, it can be removed

* [2983](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2983) docs: Fix links in the NAP config doc in main.
* [2971](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2971) fix: Correct error message on missing path in path validation.

> * [3095](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3095) do not create configmap is customConfigMap is used.

Reviewer 2: `if` instead of `is`

* VirtualServer resource now supports [wildcard hostname](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#hostname-wildcards).
* NGINX Ingress Controller images including the combined NGINX AppProtect WAF and NGINX AppProtect DoS solutions are now published to our registry. See [Images with NGINX Plus](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/technical-specifications/#images-with-nginx-plus) for a detailed list of images in our registry
* Added support for watching multiple namespaces using the [-watch-namespace](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/global-configuration/command-line-arguments/#-watch-namespace-string) cli argument. This can configured by passing a comma-separated list of namespaces to the `-watch-namespace` CLI argument (e.g. `-watch-namespace=ns-1,ns-2`).
* A new cli argument has been added: [-include-year](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/global-configuration/command-line-arguments/#-include-year). This appends the current year to the log output from the ingress controller. Example output: `I20220512 09:20:42.345457`.

> 

Reviewer: Brian's note above needs to go in here also:
```suggestion
* Post-startup configuration reloads have been optimized to reduce traffic impacts. When many resources are modified at the same time, changes are combined to reduce the number of data plane reloads.

```

Author: Thanks, I didn't realise I missed that.

toc: true
docs: "DOCS-616"
---
## NGINX Ingress Controller 2.4.0

04 Oct 2022

OVERVIEW:

* Added support for enabling [proxy_protocol](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.4.0/examples/shared-examples/proxy-protocol) when port 443 is being used for both HTTPS traffic and [TLS Passthrough traffic](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.4.0/examples/custom-resources/tls-passthrough).

> * TransportServer now also supports defining and [external name service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#externalname), which will allow you to configure an external resolver for upstreams that use a domain name. For examples, see [externalname-services](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.4.0/examples/custom-resources/externalname-services).

Reviewer: Sorry, I had updated my suggestion but I don't think GH saved it correctly!
```suggestion
* Updates to the TransportServer resource to support using [ExternalName services] (https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#externalname). For examples, see [externalname-services](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.4.0/examples/custom-resources/externalname-services).
```

* VirtualServer resource now supports [wildcard hostname](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#hostname-wildcards).

> * NaP + DoS images are now published to our registry. See [Images with NGINX Plus](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/technical-specifications/#images-with-nginx-plus) for a detials list of images in our registry

Reviewer 3: NGINX Ingress Controller images including the combined NGINX AppProtect WAF and NGINX AppProtect DoS solutions are now published...

> * NGINX Ingress Controller images including the combined NGINX AppProtect WAF and NGINX AppProtect DoS solutions are now published to our registry. See [Images with NGINX Plus](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/technical-specifications/#images-with-nginx-plus) for a detials list of images in our registry

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* NGINX Ingress Controller images including the combined NGINX AppProtect WAF and NGINX AppProtect DoS solutions are now published to our registry. See [Images with NGINX Plus](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/technical-specifications/#images-with-nginx-plus) for a detailed list of images in our registry
```

> * Added support for watching multiple namespaces using the [-watch-namespace](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/global-configuration/command-line-arguments/#-watch-namespace-string) cli argument. This can configured by passing a comma separated list of namespaces to the `-watch-namespace` CLI argument (e.g. `-watch-namespace=ns-1,ns-2`).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Added support for watching multiple namespaces using the [-watch-namespace](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/global-configuration/command-line-arguments/#-watch-namespace-string) cli argument. This can be configured by passing a comma-separated list of namespaces to the `-watch-namespace` CLI argument (e.g. `-watch-namespace=ns-1,ns-2`).
```

> * A new cli argument has been added. The [-include-year](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/global-configuration/command-line-arguments/#-include-year). This will append the current year to the log output from the ingress controller. Example output: `I20220512 09:20:42.345457`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* A new cli argument has been added: [-include-year](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/global-configuration/command-line-arguments/#-include-year). This appends the current year to the log output. Example output: `I20220512 09:20:42.345457`.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: * Post-startup configuration reloads have been optimized to reduce traffic impacts.  When many resources are modified at the same time, changes are combined to reduce the number of data plane reloads.

FEATURES:

* [2986](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2986) Batch reloads at runtime.
* [2914](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2914) Support watching multiple namespaces.
* [2884](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2884) Include year in logs.
* [2993](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2993) Accept proxy protocol when TLS passthrough enabled.
* [3041](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3041) Support external name service for TansportServer.

> * [2939](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2939) Add support for wildcard hostname in VirutalServer.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* [2939](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2939) Add support for wildcard hostname in VirtualServer.
```

IMPROVEMENTS:

* [3040](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3040) Add command line argument to manually disable IPV6 listeners for unsupported clusters.
* [3088](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3088) Filter secrets of type helm.sh/release.v1.

FIXES:

> * [2983](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2983) docs: Fix links in the NAP config doc in main.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

* [3031](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3031) Adding automountServiceAccountToken to helm chart.

UPGRADE:
* For NGINX, use the 2.4.0 images from our [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/nginx/nginx-ingress/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated&name=2.4.0), [GitHub Container](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pkgs/container/kubernetes-ingress) or [Amazon ECR Public Gallery](https://gallery.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx-ingress).
* For NGINX Plus, use the 2.4.0 images from the F5 Container registry or the [AWS Marketplace](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/search/?CREATOR=741df81b-dfdc-4d36-b8da-945ea66b522c&FULFILLMENT_OPTION_TYPE=CONTAINER&filters=CREATOR%2CFULFILLMENT_OPTION_TYPE) or build your own image using the 2.4.0 source code.
* For Helm, use version 0.15.0 of the chart. If you're using custom resources like VirtualServer and TransportServer (`controller.enableCustomResources` is set to `true`), after you run the `helm upgrade` command, the CRDs will not be upgraded. After running the `helm upgrade` command, run `kubectl apply -f deployments/helm-chart/crds` to upgrade the CRDs.

SUPPORTED PLATFORMS:

> We will provide technical support for the NGINX Ingress Controller on any Kubernetes platform that is currently supported by its provider and which passes the Kubernetes conformance tests. This release was fully tested on the following Kubernetes versions: 1.19-1.25.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We will provide technical support for NGINX Ingress Controller on any Kubernetes platform that is currently supported by its provider and that passes the Kubernetes conformance tests. This release was fully tested on the following Kubernetes versions: 1.19-1.25.
```

toc: true
docs: "DOCS-616"
---
## NGINX Ingress Controller 2.4.0

04 Oct 2022

OVERVIEW:

> * Updates to the TransportServer resource to support [proxy_protocol](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.0.1/examples/proxy-protocol) on port 443, both for regular HTTPS and TLS Passthrough traffic.

Reviewer: I'm not sure on the wording on this. Maybe something like:
```suggestion
* Added support for enabling [proxy_protocol](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.4.0/examples/shared-examples/proxy-protocol) when port 443 is being used for both HTTPS traffic and [TLS Passthrough traffic](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.4.0/examples/custom-resources/tls-passthrough).
```

> * TransportServer now also supports defining and [external name service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#externalname), which will allow you to configure an external resolver for upstreams that use a domain name. For examples, see [externalname-services](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/custom-resources/externalname-services).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TransportServer now also supports defining and [external name service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#externalname), which will allow you to configure an external resolver for upstreams that use a domain name. For examples, see [externalname-services](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.4.0/examples/custom-resources/externalname-services).
```

* VirtualServer resource now supports [wildcard hostname](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#hostname-wildcards).

> - Two new cli arguments have been added to the ingress controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Two new cli arguments have been added to the Ingress Controller.
```

>   - [-watch-namespace](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/global-configuration/command-line-arguments/#-watch-namespace-string). This can configured by passing a comma separated list of namespaces to the `-watch-namespace` CLI argument (e.g. `-watch-namespace=ns-1,ns-2`).

Reviewer: This isn't a new CLI option, it has just been modified to accept a comma separated list instead of a string

  - [-include-year](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/global-configuration/command-line-arguments/#-include-year). When set, this cli argument will append the current year to the log output from the ingress controller. Example output: `I20220512 09:20:42.345457`.

FEATURES:

* [2986](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2986) Batch reloads at runtime.
* [2914](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2914) Support watching multiple namespaces.
* [2884](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2884) Include year in logs.
* [2993](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2993) Accept proxy protocol when TLS passthrough enabled.
* [3041](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3041) Support external name service for TansportServer.
* [2939](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2939) Add support for wildcard hostname in VirutalServer.

IMPROVEMENTS:

> * [2912](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2912) NIC + NAP DoS images.

Reviewer 4: I don't think we want to abbreviate NIC, but probably this shouldn't be here anyway as it's just pipeline and tests. Maybe you want to add a note in the overview that we now publish NAP DoS images to our registry.

* [3040](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3040) Add command line argument to manually disable IPV6 listeners for unsupported clusters.
* [3088](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3088) Filter secrets of type helm.sh/release.v1.

FIXES:

* [3094](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/3094) Optimise path validation.

> * [2848](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pull/2848) fix: Change alpine version grab to include a colon in the updater.

Reviewer 4: `2848` and `2983` should be removed, they're docs and pipeline changes.

* For NGINX, use the 2.3.0 images from our [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/nginx/nginx-ingress/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated&name=2.3.0), [GitHub Container](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/pkgs/container/kubernetes-ingress) or [Amazon ECR Public Gallery](https://gallery.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx-ingress).
* For NGINX Plus, use the 2.3.0 images from the F5 Container registry or the [AWS Marketplace](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/search/?CREATOR=741df81b-dfdc-4d36-b8da-945ea66b522c&FULFILLMENT_OPTION_TYPE=CONTAINER&filters=CREATOR%2CFULFILLMENT_OPTION_TYPE) or build your own image using the 2.3.0 source code.
* For Helm, use version 0.14.0 of the chart. If you're using custom resources like VirtualServer and TransportServer (`controller.enableCustomResources` is set to `true`), after you run the `helm upgrade` command, the CRDs will not be upgraded. After running the `helm upgrade` command, run `kubectl apply -f deployments/helm-chart/crds` to upgrade the CRDs.

> * When upgrading using the [manifests](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/installation/installation-with-manifests/), make sure to update the [ClusterRole](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/blob/v2.4.0/deployments/rbac/rbac.yaml). This is required to enable the ExternalDNS for VirtualServer resources integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When upgrading using the [manifests](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/installation/installation-with-manifests/), make sure to update the [ClusterRole](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/blob/v2.3.1/deployments/rbac/rbac.yaml). This is required to enable the ExternalDNS for VirtualServer resources integration.
```
